---
layout: post
title: Week1 + preliminary
---

This blog will be covering a couple weeks. The project has had a bit of a slow start as the other students on the team are all under a different source of funding which had not been awarded until recently. Prior to the kickoff during early July I used this time to study. The main focus was on computer vision, as I had limited experience with it, and the YOLO algorithm (Dr.Aibin provided sources/tutorials).<br />
 >The team has so far trained some models using the YoloV5 algorithm, a convolution neural network, but found we had poor performance on the current data set. Due to this we did another pass cleaning the data set, and indentied the classes that were performing poorly. These classes were dents and cracks. The cracks are generally seen in the surface paint (not structural such as cracks from fatigue in the aluminium) and create a large area that has many small cracks. While the model correctly identifies the cracked area I believe the low map score is due to the model not precisely matching the training labels. It may be required to annotate the cracks as the whole section rather than the individual cracks. There are very few dent samples and they are hard even for humans to look at the image to label. To supplement the data set and bolster the classes lacking sufficient images several members of the team who are located in the vancouver area took some additional images and there are plans to gather more when access to additional aircraft is available.

